
# Outline {.unnumbered}

The following is a documentation of efforts to understand whether it would be possible to operate a robot hanging from a crane.
Given the desire of increasing automation in the construction industry the ability to extend the working area of conventional industrial robots by hanging them from cranes could be of great use and impact.

The introduction ([chapter @Sec:background]) begins with a summary of why construction robots are of interest, their current availability and abilities.
Its second section elaborates why hanging robots from cranes is of interest.
The stabilization approach choosen for this work i.e. control moment gyroscopes (CMGs) is briefly introduced before discussing alternative approaches.
Finally the potential of the choosen approach is discussed.

With the focus of this work being CMG-based crane stabilization the main content begins with [Chapter @Sec:cmg-sota] introducing the fundamental principle of CMGs.
The chapter goes on to discuss their use in spaceflight as well as terrestrial systems for maneuvering and stabilization.
The idea to utilize gyroscopes to stabilize cranes is not new and so special attention is given to previous research in this field.
This chapter thereby motivates this work by identifying areas not covered by existing research.

Following this, [chapter @Sec:cmg-theory] summarizes the existing theory on CMGs as it pertains to this work.
The majority of this chapter is spent on introducing and explaining the dynamics of CMGs before moving on to the sizing and steering of them.
The chapter thereby outlines the constraints of CMGs and limits of the existing models.

With the fundamentals of CMGs covered, [chapter @Sec:modeling-cmg-crane] develops the models required for assessing the core question of this work: how do the crane, robot and CMGs interact.
The chapter begins by identifying and approximating the parameters of a crane that affect the crane-CMG-robot interaction.
Following this a model is derived that approximates the crane and its load as a double pendulum.
The load in this case being the CMGs, any kinematic systems and or any payloads hanging from them.
The model is then further extended to include the dynamics of the CMG and robot as well as external forces in general.

[Chapter @Sec:controller-design] describes and structures the control problems of the crane-CMG system in its various applications.
After an overview regarding crane control theory a simple controller for dampening osciallations is choosen and described.

[Chapter @Sec:experiments] covers the experiments performed for with work.
It begins with the validation of the double pendulum model's behaviour through simulations before evaluating the choosen dampening controller.
The second section investigates the interaction of the dampening controller with the steering law of CMGs using a scissored pair CMG array as an example.
Here the previously developed model allows for an analysis of how the different torques interact, which is of great importance when it comes to sizing consideration.
The third section covers the generation of example forces and torques as generated by a robot's motion.
These forces and torques are used in the subsequent section to simulate the motion of a robot hanging from a crane and how the use of CMGs can reduce the deviation from the target path.
The chapter closes with a discussion of the hardware prototype built in parallel to this work.

Building upon the insights gained from the the modelling and experimental chapters, [chapter @Sec:sizing] develops a sizing methodology for the CMGs in a crane-CMG system.
It begins by discussing how the sizing requirements and constraints arise from the various use cases of CMGs for crane stabilization.
The chapter closes with a discussion of the relationships between the constraints and how the sizing for crane-CMG systems differs from other CMG applications.

The insights gained during this work are summarized in [chapter @Sec:outlook] and used to indentify the key challenges for further work.

Some specialized terminology is explainind in a glossary ([chapter @Sec:glossary]) and the appendix ([chapter @Sec:appendix]) includes the python implementations of the models.

--------------------

Construction robotics is a field heavily reliant on interdiscplinary collaboration.
Therefore this thesis aims not only to be of use to engineers interested in dynamic systems and their control.
Instead the intention is that, by covering certain fundamentals in greater detail, this work will be of use to architects, civil engineers and roboticists alike enabling them to understand the potentials and challenges of hanging a robot from a crane.
